VAMobile/ios/Pods/GoogleUtilities/README.md, before:

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/v/GoogleUtilities.svg?style=flat)](https://cocoapods.org/pods/GoogleUtilities)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/l/GoogleUtilities.svg?style=flat)](https://cocoapods.org/pods/GoogleUtilities)
[![Platform](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/p/GoogleUtilities.svg?style=flat)](https://cocoapods.org/pods/GoogleUtilities)

[![Actions Status][gh-google-utilities-badge]][gh-actions]

# GoogleUtilities

GoogleUtilities provides a set of utilities for Firebase and other Google SDKs for Apple platform
development.

The utilities are not directly supported for non-Google library usage.

## Integration Testing
These instructions apply to minor and patch version updates. Major versions need
a customized adaptation.

After the CI is green:
* Update the version in the podspec to match the latest entry in the [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md)
* Checkout the `main` branch and ensure it is up to date
  ```console
  git checkout main
  git pull
  ```
* Add the CocoaPods tag (`{version}` will be the latest version in the [podspec](GoogleUtilities.podspec#L3))
  ```console
  git tag CocoaPods-{version}
  git push origin CocoaPods-{version}
  ```
* Push the podspec to the designated repo
  * If this version of GoogleUtilities is intended to launch **before or with** the next Firebase release:
    <details>
    <summary>Push to <b>SpecsStaging</b></summary>

    ```console
    pod repo push --skip-tests staging GoogleUtilities.podspec
    ```

    If the command fails with `Unable to find the 'staging' repo.`, add the staging repo with:
    ```console
    pod repo add staging git@github.com:firebase/SpecsStaging.git
    ```
    </details>
  * Otherwise:
    <details>
    <summary>Push to <b>SpecsDev</b></summary>

    ```console
    pod repo push --skip-tests dev GoogleUtilities.podspec
    ```

    If the command fails with `Unable to find the 'dev' repo.`, add the dev repo with:
    ```console
    pod repo add dev git@github.com:firebase/SpecsDev.git
    ```
    </details>
* Run Firebase CI by waiting until next nightly or adding a PR that touches `Gemfile`.
* On google3, run copybara using the command below. Then, start a global TAP on the generated CL. Deflake as needed.
  ```console
  third_party/firebase/ios/Releases/run_copy_bara.py --directory GoogleUtilities --branch main
  ```

## Publishing
The release process is as follows:
1. [Tag and release for Swift PM](#swift-package-manager)
2. [Publish to CocoaPods](#cocoapods)
3. [Perform post release cleanup](#post-release-cleanup)

### Swift Package Manager
  By creating and [pushing a tag](https://github.com/google/GoogleUtilities/tags)
  for Swift PM, the newly tagged version will be immediately released for public use.
  Given this, please verify the intended time of release for Swift PM.
  * Add a version tag for Swift PM
  ```console
  git tag {version}
  git push origin {version}
  ```
  *Note: Ensure that any inflight PRs that depend on the new `GoogleUtilities` version are updated to point to the
  newly tagged version rather than a checksum.*

### CocoaPods
* Publish the newly versioned pod to CocoaPods

  It's recommended to point to the `GoogleUtilities.podspec` in `staging` to make sure the correct spec is being published.
  ```console
  pod trunk push ~/.cocoapods/repos/staging/GoogleUtilities/7.4.0/GoogleUtilities.podspec
  ```
  *Note: In some cases, it may be acceptable to `pod trunk push` with the `--skip-tests` flag. Please double check with
  the maintainers before doing so.*

  The pod push was successful if the above command logs: `🚀  GoogleUtilities ({version}) successfully published`.
  In addition, a new commit that publishes the new version (co-authored by [CocoaPodsAtGoogle](https://github.com/CocoaPodsAtGoogle))
  should appear in the [CocoaPods specs repo](https://github.com/CocoaPods/Specs). Last, the latest version should be displayed
  on [GoogleUtilities's CocoaPods page](https://cocoapods.org/pods/GoogleUtilities).

  *Don't forget to perform the [post release cleanup](#post-release-cleanup)!*

### Post Release Cleanup
* Clean up [SpecsStaging](https://github.com/firebase/SpecsStaging):
  ```console
  cd ~/path/to/SpecsStaging/
  git checkout master
  git pull
  git rm -rf GoogleUtilities/
  git commit -m "Post GoogleUtilities {version} release cleanup"
  git push
  ```

## Development

To develop in this repository, ensure that you have at least the following software:

  * Xcode 12.0 (or later)
  * CocoaPods 1.10.0 (or later)
  * [CocoaPods generate](https://github.com/square/cocoapods-generate)

For the pod that you want to develop:

`pod gen GoogleUtilities.podspec --local-sources=./ --auto-open --platforms=ios`

Note: If the CocoaPods cache is out of date, you may need to run
`pod repo update` before the `pod gen` command.

Note: Set the `--platforms` option to `macos` or `tvos` to develop/test for
those platforms. Since 10.2, Xcode does not properly handle multi-platform
CocoaPods workspaces.

### Development for Catalyst
* `pod gen GoogleUtilities.podspec --local-sources=./ --auto-open --platforms=ios`
* Check the Mac box in the App-iOS Build Settings
* Sign the App in the Settings Signing & Capabilities tab
* Click Pods in the Project Manager
* Add Signing to the iOS host app and unit test targets
* Select the Unit-unit scheme
* Run it to build and test

Alternatively disable signing in each target:
* Go to Build Settings tab
* Click `+`
* Select `Add User-Defined Setting`
* Add `CODE_SIGNING_REQUIRED` setting with a value of `NO`

### Code Formatting

To ensure that the code is formatted consistently, run the script
[./scripts/check.sh](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-ios-sdk/blob/master/scripts/check.sh)
before creating a PR.

GitHub Actions will verify that any code changes are done in a style compliant
way. Install `clang-format` and `mint`:

```console
brew install clang-format@12
brew install mint
```

### Running Unit Tests

Select a scheme and press Command-u to build a component and run its unit tests.

## Contributing

See [Contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## License

The contents of this repository is licensed under the
[Apache License, version 2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

[gh-actions]: https://github.com/firebase/firebase-ios-sdk/actions
[gh-google-utilities-badge]: https://github.com/firebase/firebase-ios-sdk/workflows/google-utilities/badge.svg

Commit message:

Update @react-native-firebase/analytics @react-native-firebase/app @react-native-firebase/crashlytics

VAMobile/ios/Pods/GoogleUtilities/README.md, after:

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/v/GoogleUtilities.svg?style=flat)](https://cocoapods.org/pods/GoogleUtilities)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/l/GoogleUtilities.svg?style=flat)](https://cocoapods.org/pods/GoogleUtilities)
[![Platform](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/p/GoogleUtilities.svg?style=flat)](https://cocoapods.org/pods/GoogleUtilities)

[![Actions Status][gh-google-utilities-badge]][gh-actions]

# GoogleUtilities

GoogleUtilities provides a set of utilities for Firebase and other Google SDKs for Apple platform
development.

The utilities are not directly supported for non-Google library usage.

## Integration Testing
These instructions apply to minor and patch version updates. Major versions need
a customized adaptation.

After the CI is green:
* Determine the next version for release by checking the
  [tagged releases](https://github.com/google/GoogleUtilities/tags).
  Ensure that the next release version keeps the Swift PM and CocoaPods versions in sync.
* Verify that the releasing version is the latest entry in the [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md),
  updating it if necessary.
* Update the version in the podspec to match the latest entry in the [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md)
* Checkout the `main` branch and ensure it is up to date
  ```console
  git checkout main
  git pull
  ```
* Add the CocoaPods tag (`{version}` will be the latest version in the [podspec](GoogleUtilities.podspec#L3))
  ```console
  git tag CocoaPods-{version}
  git push origin CocoaPods-{version}
  ```
* Push the podspec to the designated repo
  * If this version of GoogleUtilities is intended to launch **before or with** the next Firebase release:
    <details>
    <summary>Push to <b>SpecsStaging</b></summary>

    ```console
    pod repo push --skip-tests staging GoogleUtilities.podspec
    ```

    If the command fails with `Unable to find the 'staging' repo.`, add the staging repo with:
    ```console
    pod repo add staging git@github.com:firebase/SpecsStaging.git
    ```
    </details>
  * Otherwise:
    <details>
    <summary>Push to <b>SpecsDev</b></summary>

    ```console
    pod repo push --skip-tests dev GoogleUtilities.podspec
    ```

    If the command fails with `Unable to find the 'dev' repo.`, add the dev repo with:
    ```console
    pod repo add dev git@github.com:firebase/SpecsDev.git
    ```
    </details>
* Run Firebase CI by waiting until next nightly or adding a PR that touches `Gemfile`.
* On google3, run copybara using the command below. Then, start a global TAP on the generated CL. Deflake as needed.
  ```console
  third_party/firebase/ios/Releases/run_copy_bara.py --directory GoogleUtilities --branch main
  ```

## Publishing
The release process is as follows:
1. [Tag and release for Swift PM](#swift-package-manager)
2. [Publish to CocoaPods](#cocoapods)
3. [Create GitHub Release](#create-github-release)
4. [Perform post release cleanup](#post-release-cleanup)

### Swift Package Manager
  By creating and [pushing a tag](https://github.com/google/GoogleUtilities/tags)
  for Swift PM, the newly tagged version will be immediately released for public use.
  Given this, please verify the intended time of release for Swift PM.
  * Add a version tag for Swift PM
  ```console
  git tag {version}
  git push origin {version}
  ```
  *Note: Ensure that any inflight PRs that depend on the new `GoogleUtilities` version are updated to point to the
  newly tagged version rather than a checksum.*

### CocoaPods
* Publish the newly versioned pod to CocoaPods

  It's recommended to point to the `GoogleUtilities.podspec` in `staging` to make sure the correct spec is being published.
  ```console
  pod trunk push ~/.cocoapods/repos/staging/GoogleUtilities/{version}/GoogleUtilities.podspec
  ```
  *Note: In some cases, it may be acceptable to `pod trunk push` with the `--skip-tests` flag. Please double check with
  the maintainers before doing so.*

  The pod push was successful if the above command logs: `🚀  GoogleUtilities ({version}) successfully published`.
  In addition, a new commit that publishes the new version (co-authored by [CocoaPodsAtGoogle](https://github.com/CocoaPodsAtGoogle))
  should appear in the [CocoaPods specs repo](https://github.com/CocoaPods/Specs). Last, the latest version should be displayed
  on [GoogleUtilities's CocoaPods page](https://cocoapods.org/pods/GoogleUtilities).

### [Create GitHub Release](https://github.com/google/GoogleUtilities/releases/new/)
  Update the [release template](https://github.com/google/GoogleUtilities/releases/new/)'s **Tag version** and **Release title**
  fields with the latest version. In addition, reference the [Release Notes](./CHANGELOG.md) in the release's description.

  See [this release](https://github.com/google/GoogleUtilities/releases/edit/9.0.1) for an example.

  *Don't forget to perform the [post release cleanup](#post-release-cleanup)!*

### Post Release Cleanup
  <details>
  <summary>Clean up <b>SpecsStaging</b></summary>

  ```console
  pwd=$(pwd)
  mkdir -p /tmp/release-cleanup && cd $_
  git clone git@github.com:firebase/SpecsStaging.git
  cd SpecsStaging/
  git rm -rf GoogleUtilities/
  git commit -m "Post publish cleanup"
  git push origin master
  rm -rf /tmp/release-cleanup
  cd $pwd
  ```
  </details>

## Development

To develop in this repository, ensure that you have at least the following software:

  * Xcode 12.0 (or later)
  * CocoaPods 1.10.0 (or later)
  * [CocoaPods generate](https://github.com/square/cocoapods-generate)

For the pod that you want to develop:

`pod gen GoogleUtilities.podspec --local-sources=./ --auto-open --platforms=ios`

Note: If the CocoaPods cache is out of date, you may need to run
`pod repo update` before the `pod gen` command.

Note: Set the `--platforms` option to `macos` or `tvos` to develop/test for
those platforms. Since 10.2, Xcode does not properly handle multi-platform
CocoaPods workspaces.

### Development for Catalyst
* `pod gen GoogleUtilities.podspec --local-sources=./ --auto-open --platforms=ios`
* Check the Mac box in the App-iOS Build Settings
* Sign the App in the Settings Signing & Capabilities tab
* Click Pods in the Project Manager
* Add Signing to the iOS host app and unit test targets
* Select the Unit-unit scheme
* Run it to build and test

Alternatively disable signing in each target:
* Go to Build Settings tab
* Click `+`
* Select `Add User-Defined Setting`
* Add `CODE_SIGNING_REQUIRED` setting with a value of `NO`

### Code Formatting

To ensure that the code is formatted consistently, run the script
[./scripts/check.sh](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-ios-sdk/blob/master/scripts/check.sh)
before creating a PR.

GitHub Actions will verify that any code changes are done in a style compliant
way. Install `clang-format` and `mint`:

```console
brew install clang-format@12
brew install mint
```

### Running Unit Tests

Select a scheme and press Command-u to build a component and run its unit tests.

## Contributing

See [Contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## License

The contents of this repository is licensed under the
[Apache License, version 2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

[gh-actions]: https://github.com/firebase/firebase-ios-sdk/actions
[gh-google-utilities-badge]: https://github.com/firebase/firebase-ios-sdk/workflows/google-utilities/badge.svg
